---
layout: post
title: Nothing To See Here
---
It seems a long while since I’ve posted anything on here as to be honest there
hasn’t been much incentive. Things are bimbling along quite nicely and I’ve had
a lot to do to keep myself occupied. I’m off-work until the 10th of January,
which has given me some time to do some of the things on my todo list. Item 1
was upgrade this blog to Wordpress 2.0 which was suprisingly easy. I was on 1.2
which required a complicated 1.2->1.5->2.0 upgrade path then a conversion of my
existing template to the new theme system, but thanks to the guys that wrote
this software I got it all done in under 1 hour. Go Me!

On the work front, we’re making a few minor changes. Over the course of the
last few months we’ve built a new datacenter on the other side of the corridor
and moved everything we own out of the old one into the new, with only minimal
downtime. You can read more about it here, but the project is only 50% complete
as we need to rebuild the old datacenter and move most of our production kit
back into it to make way for a couple of £million of HPC kit over Easter. Go
Us!

At work, I’ve been mostly playing with XFCE4 as a new Desktop Environment
because I’m bored with Gnome and the amount of memory it hogs (which is a pain
when you only have 2GB ;-) ). I’m still running Fedora Core 4, but I’m playing
with Fedora Core 5 and RedHat Enterprise 4.3 on the side - I’ll probably put my
Workstation onto FC5 when it comes out after I’ve created a much more minimal
custom configuration - or I might just have a play with Gentoo - I haven’t made
up my mind yet.

In Life, I’ve been working hard too. I’ve joined the Army Cadets as an
Instructor and I’m now living as a SubWarden in Bernard Sunley Hall. These two
really eat into my social life in the evenings, but it’s still great fun.
